UI UX Gemini
A Strategic Guide to Crafting a Premium CRM User
Experience with Modern React Components and AI
Architectural Foundations: A Layered Strategy for a Premium UI
System
Building a truly premium CRM application requires a deliberate architectural strategy that balances
control, efficiency, and aesthetic polish. The foundation of your stack—Next.js 15, Tailwind CSS 4,
and shadcn/ui—signals a commitment to modern development practices, performance, and
developer ownership. This section outlines a layered approach to extend this foundation, creating a
cohesive and powerful UI system capable of delivering the "wow" moments you seek.

The shadcn/ui Philosophy: Embracing Ownership and Control
The selection of shadcn/ui is a foundational architectural decision that dictates the rest of the UI
strategy. Unlike traditional component libraries that are installed as a single, opaque dependency,
shadcn/ui operates on a different principle. It is a collection of beautifully designed, accessible, and
reusable components that developers copy and paste directly into their projects.1 This approach
has several profound implications for a high-end CRM project.
First, it grants you complete ownership and control over the component code.1 There are no hidden
abstractions or versioning conflicts to contend with. If a component needs to be customized to fit a
specific CRM workflow, you can modify the source code directly without fighting against the
library's built-in styles or logic. This is paramount for building a bespoke application that doesn't
feel like it was assembled from a generic kit-of-parts.
This model of ownership has given rise to a unique ecosystem. Because shadcn/ui provides robust
and accessible but largely un-animated foundational components, it has created a market for
libraries that provide a complementary "effect layer." Developers who choose shadcn/ui value
control but still desire sophisticated animations without building them from scratch. This has led to
the emergence of specialized libraries like Aceternity UI and Magic UI, which are not alternatives to
shadcn/ui, but are explicitly designed as extensions to it. They are built on the same technologies
and follow the same copy-paste ethos, creating a natural path for layering advanced visual effects
on top of a solid structural base.3 Therefore, the optimal strategy is not to choose
between these libraries but to layer them: shadcn/ui serves as the structural foundation, while
Aceternity and Magic UI provide the decorative, experiential finish.

Recommended "Effect" Libraries: Aceternity UI and Magic UI
To add the desired layer of polish and animation, Aceternity UI and Magic UI are the premier
choices. Both are designed to integrate seamlessly into a shadcn/ui-based project. They are
explicitly marketed as "perfect companions for shadcn/ui" and are built using the same core

UI UX Gemini

1

technologies: React, Tailwind CSS, and Framer Motion, which ensures perfect technical
compatibility with your stack.3
Aceternity UI is described as "shadcn/ui for magic effects," offering a collection of stunning, often
complex, animated components that are ready to be used with a simple copy-and-paste workflow.4
These are not your standard buttons and inputs, but rather eye-catching elements like animated
background beams, 3D card effects, and intricate text animations designed to create immediate
visual impact.
Magic UI follows a similar philosophy, providing over 150 free and open-source animated
components and effects.3 It has rapidly gained popularity for its high-quality, production-ready
animations that can elevate a standard landing page or application dashboard into something
memorable.
Integrating these libraries is straightforward. The process typically involves installing a few
common peer dependencies—framer-motion for animation, clsx for conditional class names, and
tailwind-merge to resolve conflicting Tailwind classes—and then copying the component code into
your project.8 A common best practice, detailed in guides for using these libraries together, is to
establish a shared
cn.ts utility file. This file exports a helper function that combines clsx and twMerge, ensuring that
dynamic and default classes are applied correctly and predictably across all components, whether
they originate from shadcn/ui, Aceternity, or your own custom code.8 This simple setup creates a
low-friction path to a rich, animated UI.

Standardizing on a Motion Language: Framer Motion as the Core Engine
To ensure a cohesive and high-quality user experience, all animations—from the simplest button
hover to the most complex layout shift—should feel like they belong to the same family. The most
effective way to achieve this is to standardize on a single, powerful animation library. Framer
Motion is the unequivocal choice for this role within your technology stack.
Framer Motion is already the engine powering the recommended effect libraries, Aceternity UI and
Magic UI, making it the de facto standard for your project.4 It is celebrated for its simple declarative
API, which allows for the creation of complex animations with minimal code, and its focus on
physics-based motion, which results in more natural and fluid-feeling interactions.9
However, the true power of Framer Motion for a premium CRM lies beyond animating individual
components. Its most transformative feature is its layout animation system. A premium application
doesn't just have animated buttons; its entire layout responds intelligently and gracefully to user
actions. When a user applies a filter to a grid of leads, reorders tasks on a Kanban board, or opens
a modal, the elements on the screen should not just pop in and out. Instead, they should smoothly
transition to their new positions and sizes.
This is achieved primarily through two core Framer Motion components:
1. <AnimatePresence>: This component is essential for animating components as they are added
to or removed from the React tree. For example, when a notification toast appears or a modal is

UI UX Gemini

2

dismissed, <AnimatePresence> allows you to define an exit animation, preventing the element
from jarringly disappearing from the screen.9
2. The layout Prop: When applied to a motion component (e.g., <motion.div layout>), this prop
instructs Framer Motion to automatically animate the component to its new position whenever
its layout changes as a result of a re-render. If multiple elements with the layout prop change
position simultaneously (like cards in a reordered list), Framer Motion will orchestrate a smooth,
hardware-accelerated animation for all of them.11
By mastering and consistently applying these layout animation features, you can create "wow"
moments out of everyday interactions. A single click can trigger a beautifully coordinated ballet of
UI elements, reinforcing the feeling of a polished, high-end application.
Library
shadcn/ui

Aceternity UI

Magic UI

Framer Motion

Role in Stack

Key Features

Integration Notes

Structural

Accessible, unstyled, composable
UI primitives. Full code ownership.

Forms the base layer. Components
are copied into the project's

1

/components/ui directory.

Highly polished, complex animated

Copy-paste components as

components (3D cards,
background effects, text reveals).

needed. Relies on Framer Motion.
Use a shared cn utility for class

4

merging. 8

Foundation

Experiential
"Effect" Layer

Experiential
"Effect" Layer

Core Animation
Engine

Large collection (150+) of free,
open-source animated
components and effects. 3

Copy-paste components as
needed. Also relies on Framer
Motion and is designed to
complement shadcn/ui. 7

Physics-based animation, gesture

A core dependency for Aceternity

handling, and powerful layout
animations (AnimatePresence,

and Magic UI. Should be used for
all custom animations to ensure a

layout prop). 9

consistent motion language.

Elevating Core CRM Modules with Best-in-Class Components
With a solid architectural foundation in place, the next step is to select best-in-class components
for the CRM's core modules. This involves choosing libraries and techniques that not only provide
the necessary functionality for dashboards and Kanban boards but also align with the project's
commitment to a premium, animated user experience.

The Dashboard: Data Visualization with Tremor
For the CRM's dashboard, which will be central to visualizing lead funnels, sales performance, and
customer activity, Tremor is the strongest recommendation.15 While other libraries like Flowbite
Charts 16 or Material Tailwind Charts 17 offer charting capabilities, Tremor's unique philosophical
and technical alignment with your stack makes it the superior choice.
Choosing a charting library is not merely about the variety of charts it offers; it's about its
integration into your existing design system. Libraries like Flowbite and Material Tailwind bring their

UI UX Gemini

3

own distinct design systems and stylistic opinions, which can clash with the aesthetic established
by shadcn/ui, leading to inconsistencies and increased customization effort.
Tremor, in contrast, is built with the same foundational technologies as your core stack: React,
Tailwind CSS, and, most importantly, Radix UI primitives.15 This shared DNA is a significant
advantage. Because Tremor and
shadcn/ui both use Radix UI under the hood, their components will have consistent behavior,
accessibility patterns, and API design. Styling them with Tailwind CSS will be a seamless
experience, as they both speak the same stylistic language. This alignment dramatically reduces
development friction, ensuring a cohesive and maintainable final product.
Beyond this technical synergy, Tremor is explicitly designed for building dashboards and analytical
interfaces.1 It provides a rich set of components that are perfectly suited for a CRM, including:
Interactive Charts: A full suite of charts like Area, Bar, Donut, and Line charts, with built-in
support for animation to make data feel more dynamic.1
Dashboard-Specific Components: Elements like Date Range Picker, Tracker for visualizing
progress against goals, Bar Lists for leaderboards, and Spark Charts for embedding trendlines
directly within tables or stat cards.15
Pre-built Templates: Tremor offers dashboard and SaaS templates that can significantly
accelerate development by providing well-designed, production-ready layouts.15
By adopting Tremor, you are not just adding a charting library; you are extending your existing
design system with a specialized, perfectly aligned toolkit for data visualization.
Library

Tremor

Core Technology

shadcn/ui Alignment

React, Tailwind
CSS, Radix UI,

High. Shares Radix UI
primitives and Tailwind
CSS, ensuring

Recharts 15

Flowbite Charts

Material
Tailwind Charts

React, Tailwind
CSS, ApexCharts
16

React, Tailwind
CSS, ApexCharts
17

technical and stylistic
consistency.

Component Focus

Best For

Dashboards, data

Building a cohesive,
modern, and interactive

visualization, and
analytical
interfaces. 1

CRM dashboard that
feels like a natural
extension of the core
app.

Medium. Shares
Tailwind CSS but has

General-purpose UI
components with

Projects already
committed to the

its own design system
and dependencies.

charting as a plugin.
16

broader Flowbite
ecosystem.

Low. Imposes
Google's Material
Design aesthetic,
which may clash with
the shadcn/ui look and
feel.

Material Designinspired
components with
charting as a
feature. 18

Projects that
specifically require a
Material Design
aesthetic.

The Kanban Board: Fluidity and Tactility

UI UX Gemini

4

A Kanban board is a highly interactive component, and its perceived quality is almost entirely
dependent on the fluidity of its drag-and-drop experience. For this critical module, a "build"
approach using a combination of specialized libraries is recommended over a monolithic, pre-built
component.
The recommended path is to use dnd-kit for the core drag-and-drop logic and Framer Motion for
the animations.
dnd-kit for Logic: dnd-kit is a modern, lightweight, and performant toolkit for building complex
drag-and-drop interfaces in React. It is highly extensible and offers crucial features for a
production-grade Kanban board, including customizable sensors for pointer, mouse, and touch
inputs, and a strong focus on accessibility with built-in keyboard support and screen reader
instructions.21 It excels at the logical aspects: detecting collisions, managing draggable and
droppable elements, and providing the raw data about the state of the board.22 A
comprehensive tutorial by Chetan Verma provides an excellent blueprint for structuring the
state and handlers for a
dnd-kit-powered Kanban board.22
Framer Motion for the "Wow" Factor: While dnd-kit handles the "what" and "where," Framer
Motion handles the "how it looks and feels." By wrapping the Kanban columns and cards in
motion components with the layout prop, you can create the fluid, Trello-like experience that
users expect.11 When a user drags a card from one column to another,
dnd-kit updates the state, and Framer Motion automatically animates not only the dragged card
but also all other cards in both the source and destination columns as they shift to their new
positions. This creates a delightful, tactile sensation that makes the interface feel alive.
This synergy—using a best-in-class library for logic and a best-in-class library for animation—
results in a more powerful and flexible solution than a single component that tries to do both. This
modular approach aligns perfectly with the composable architecture of your stack.
For teams that require a faster, off-the-shelf solution, Hover.dev offers high-quality, pre-built
animated Kanban boards that are built with React, Tailwind CSS, and Framer Motion, providing a
copy-paste solution that already incorporates these principles.23

Enhancing Data Tables and Lead Management
The principles of animation and perceived performance should also be applied to the more
conventional, data-heavy parts of the CRM, such as lead lists and data tables.
Instead of static tables where rows appear and disappear abruptly, Framer Motion's
<AnimatePresence> can be used to gracefully animate rows as they are added, removed, or
filtered from the dataset.9 A simple fade-and-slide-in animation for new rows can make the
interface feel much more polished.
For views that need to load large amounts of data, implementing skeleton screens is a crucial UX
technique. Instead of showing a generic spinner, the UI displays a placeholder that mimics the final
layout of the content, such as grey bars where text and images will eventually appear.25 This

UI UX Gemini

5

reduces cognitive load and makes the application feel faster because it creates an anticipation of
the content to come. While MUI's
<Skeleton> component is a good conceptual reference, this pattern is easily replicated with simple
div elements and Tailwind's animation utilities.25
These enhancements set the stage for the ultimate improvement in perceived performance, which
will be discussed in Section 4: using React 19's useOptimistic hook to make new leads or updated
data appear in tables instantly, before the server has even confirmed the change.

Designing the Human-AI Partnership: A Masterclass in
Generative UI
The most unique and challenging aspect of this CRM is its role as a communication tool for the end
user's "AI business partner." This requires moving beyond traditional UI paradigms and embracing
the emerging field of generative and conversational interfaces. Crafting this experience
successfully will be the single biggest differentiator for your product. The strategy involves using a
robust data transport layer, implementing several key "wow" moments to make the AI feel intelligent
and present, and ensuring the user always remains in control.

The Foundation: The Vercel AI SDK
For handling all communication between your Next.js frontend and the backend AI model, the
Vercel AI SDK is the recommended foundation.27 Its core strength lies in its first-class support for
streaming AI responses. Traditional request-response cycles with AI models can lead to long, silent
waits for the user. Streaming, enabled by functions like
streamText in the AI SDK, allows the model to send back its response in chunks as it's being
generated.29 This is the technical prerequisite for creating a dynamic, real-time conversational
feel, and it unlocks the advanced UX patterns detailed below. The SDK is also highly typed and
customizable, allowing you to tailor the message and data structures to your specific application
needs.30

"Wow" Moment 1: The Streaming Typewriter Effect
The first "wow" moment is to transform the way the AI's text responses are displayed. Instead of
dumping a full paragraph of text on the screen at once, implement a typewriter effect.
This effect does more than just look aesthetically pleasing. It fundamentally changes the user's
perception of the interaction. By revealing the text character-by-character, it mimics the cadence of
human thought and speech, making the AI feel more like a collaborative partner and less like a cold,
instantaneous database query. As the user watches the text appear, it provides continuous
feedback that the AI is "working" and "thinking," which reduces the perceived latency of waiting for
a full response and makes the entire exchange feel more natural and conversational.
While the research does not point to a specific pre-built library for this effect when using the Vercel
AI SDK 30, the implementation is conceptually straightforward. The

UI UX Gemini

6

streamText function provides the stream of text chunks. On the frontend, a custom React hook can
consume this stream and, instead of appending each chunk at once, can use a setTimeout or
requestAnimationFrame loop to append the text one character at a time to the UI. This small
implementation detail has an outsized impact on the user experience, transforming a simple data
display into a dynamic conversation.

"Wow" Moment 2: Intelligent Loading & AI "Chain of Thought"
For any non-trivial AI task, there will be a loading period. The standard approach of showing a
generic spinner is a missed opportunity. A truly premium AI experience makes this waiting time
informative and trust-building. The key is to move beyond simple spinners and implement intelligent
loading indicators that provide context about the AI's process.26
The Vercel AI SDK provides the perfect tool for this. In addition to streaming the final text output, it
can be configured to stream structured data representing the model's intermediate steps, or its
"chain of thought".27 This is a goldmine for creating a transparent and engaging UX.
Consider a complex user request like, "Find me three new leads in the manufacturing sector in Ohio
and draft a cold outreach email for the most promising one." The AI model will break this down into
a series of steps. The AI SDK can stream these reasoning steps back to the client as they occur.
The UI can then display a dynamic, multi-step loading indicator:
1. Searching for leads in Ohio's manufacturing sector...

✅ Found 27 potential leads. Analyzing for best fit...
3. ✅ Identified 'Acme Innovations' as top candidate. Reviewing their profile...
4. ✍️ Drafting personalized outreach email...
2.

This transforms the loading state from an opaque black box into a transparent window into the AI's
process. The user understands why they are waiting, sees the value being created in real-time, and
builds trust in the AI's capabilities. This "chain of thought" visualization is a defining feature of a
true AI business partner, not just a chatbot.

"Wow" Moment 3: Generative UI and In-App Actions
The pinnacle of the human-AI partnership is allowing the AI to directly and safely manipulate the
application's UI. This is where the concept of Generative UI comes into play. The AI's output is not
just text to be read, but can be a command to render a component or execute a function defined on
the frontend.
For this, we can draw on the architectural patterns pioneered by libraries like CopilotKit.32 The
core idea is to define a set of
actions that the AI is allowed to perform. For example, the AI's response could be a structured tool
call like showLeadDetails({ leadId: '123' }). The frontend would be listening for this tool call and
would execute the corresponding function, perhaps opening a modal with the details for that lead.
The Vercel AI SDK also supports this pattern with its useObject hook, which can stream structured
JSON from the model.33 The AI could generate and stream the props for a React component,

UI UX Gemini

7

which the UI then renders on the fly. For instance, the AI could stream
{"component": "LeadCard", "props": {"name": "Acme Corp", "status": "Qualified"}}, and your
application would dynamically render the <LeadCard> component with those props.
A critical aspect of this pattern is maintaining user control via a human-in-the-loop approval
process. If the AI drafts an email or proposes to update a contact record, it should not execute the
action automatically. Instead, it should render a confirmation dialog (e.g., an EmailConfirmation
component) that presents the proposed action to the user, who must give explicit approval before it
is executed.32 This ensures the user remains the ultimate authority, with the AI acting as a
powerful but subordinate partner.
Toolkit /
Concept

Vercel AI SDK

CopilotKit
(Patterns)

AI Elements

Primary Function

Key Features for AI Partner

"Wow" Moment Enabled

AI Model

Robust, type-safe streaming

Communication &
Data Transport

(streamText, useObject), tool usage,
streaming reasoning steps. 27

Streaming typewriter effect,
"chain of thought" loading

In-App Agent & UI
Interaction
Architecture

Pre-built UI
Components for AI

indicators, foundation for
generative UI.

Frontend actions

AI-driven UI manipulation

(useCopilotAction), state sharing

(e.g., filling forms, opening

between app and agent, human-inthe-loop approval flows. 32

modals), safe execution of
critical tasks.

A library of customizable React

Rapid development of the chat

components (message threads,
input boxes) built on shadcn/ui for

interface itself, ensuring
stylistic consistency with the

AI interfaces. 28

rest of the CRM.

The React 19 Upgrade: A Strategic Leap in User Experience
Upgrading to a new major version of a framework should be evaluated not just on its technical
merits, but on its direct impact on the user experience. The upgrade from React 18 to 19 is not a
mere version bump; for a data-intensive CRM application, it represents a strategic opportunity to
fundamentally enhance perceived performance and interactivity. The introduction of features like
the useOptimistic hook and integrated Actions allows you to build an interface that feels
dramatically faster and more responsive.34

Why Upgrade? From Performance Tweak to Foundational UX Strategy
The core user loop in a CRM involves countless small data mutations: changing a lead's status,
adding a note, updating a contact field, moving a task. In a traditional web application, each of
these actions triggers a request to the server, and the user must wait for the response before the UI
reflects the change, often indicated by a brief spinner. While each "micro-wait" may only be a few
hundred milliseconds, their cumulative effect throughout a workday leads to significant user friction
and a feeling that the application is sluggish.
React 19 directly addresses this pain point. Its new features are designed to streamline this clientserver data flow and give developers the tools to create an "optimistic" UI—an interface that

UI UX Gemini

8

responds instantly to user input, making the application feel as fast as a native desktop app.34 This
is no longer a performance tweak; it's a foundational UX strategy that is central to delivering a
premium feel.

The useOptimistic Hook: A Practical Tutorial for a "Zero-Latency" CRM
The single most impactful feature in React 19 for your CRM will be the useOptimistic hook.34 This
hook lets you update the UI
immediately with an expected outcome, before the server has even confirmed the action. React
handles the asynchronous work in the background and will automatically revert the UI if the server
request ultimately fails.37
This pattern is perfect for the high-frequency, low-risk mutations common in a CRM. Let's walk
through a practical example: updating a task's status in a list.
Scenario: A user has a list of tasks. They click a button to change a task's status from "Pending" to
"Completed."
Without useOptimistic:
1. User clicks "Mark as Completed."
2. The UI shows a spinner next to the task.
3. An API request is sent to the server.
4. The server processes the request and updates the database.
5. The server sends a success response back to the client.
6. The spinner disappears, and the UI updates to show the "Completed" status.
Total perceived latency for the user: 200-500ms (or more).
With useOptimistic:
1. User clicks "Mark as Completed."
2. The UI instantly updates to show the "Completed" status. There is no spinner.
3. In the background, React sends the API request to the server.
4. If the request succeeds, nothing more happens. The UI is already correct.
5. If the request fails, React automatically reverts the UI back to the "Pending" status, and an error
message can be displayed.
Total perceived latency for the user: 0ms.
This elimination of micro-waits, compounded over hundreds of daily actions, dramatically improves
the user's perception of the application's speed and responsiveness.
Implementation Example:
Here is a conceptual code walkthrough for implementing this pattern:
JavaScript

UI UX Gemini

9

// ai/actions.ts - A server action to update the task
'use server';
import { db } from '@/lib/db';
import { revalidatePath } from 'next/cache';
export async function updateTaskStatus(taskId, newStatus) {
// Simulate network delay
await new Promise(res => setTimeout(res, 500));
// Example of a potential failure
if (newStatus === 'Failed') {
throw new Error('Failed to update task on the server.');
}
await db.task.update({ where: { id: taskId }, data: { status: newStatus } });
revalidatePath('/tasks');
return { success: true };
}
// components/TaskList.tsx - The client component
'use client';
import { useOptimistic, startTransition } from 'react';
import { updateTaskStatus } from '@/ai/actions';
export function TaskList({ tasks }) {
const = useOptimistic(
tasks,
(state, { taskId, newStatus }) => {
// This function defines how to create the optimistic state.
// It returns a new array of tasks with the updated status for the specific task.
return state.map(task =>
task.id === taskId? {...task, status: newStatus } : task
);
}
);
const handleUpdateStatus = async (taskId, newStatus) => {
// Wrap the state update in startTransition

UI UX Gemini

10

startTransition(() => {
// This updates the UI instantly
setOptimisticTasks({ taskId, newStatus });
});
try {
// Call the server action in the background
await updateTaskStatus(taskId, newStatus);
} catch (error) {
// If the server action throws an error, React will automatically
// revert the optimistic update. We can then show an error toast.
console.error(error);
// toast.error('Failed to update task.');
}
};
return (
<div>
{optimisticTasks.map(task => (
<div key={task.id}>
<span>{task.title} - {task.status}</span>
<button onClick={() => handleUpdateStatus(task.id, 'Completed')}>
Mark as Completed
</button>
</div>
))}
</div>
);
}
In this example, when the user clicks the button, setOptimisticTasks is called inside startTransition.
This immediately re-renders the component with the optimisticTasks state, showing the
"Completed" status. The updateTaskStatus server action then runs in the background. The user
experiences an instantaneous UI update, achieving the desired "zero-latency" feel.34

Actions and useFormStatus: Simplifying Forms and Pending States

UI UX Gemini

11

React 19 further enhances this model with the formalization of Actions. Actions allow you to pass
functions directly to form elements like <form action={...}> or <button formAction={...}>.35 This
simplifies data submission logic by co-locating the mutation with the component that triggers it,
reducing boilerplate code.
Complementing this is the useFormStatus hook. This hook can be used by any component nested
within a <form> to get the status of the form submission (e.g., whether it's pending). This is
incredibly useful for design systems, as you can create a generic <SubmitButton> component that
automatically disables itself and shows a spinner when the form is submitting, without needing to
manually thread isLoading props down the component tree.34 This further contributes to a
polished, consistent, and responsive UI across all forms in the CRM.

Conclusions and Recommendations
To elevate your Next.js CRM into a premium application that delivers "wow" moments and delights
users, a multi-layered strategic approach is required. The following recommendations synthesize
the analysis into an actionable roadmap.
1. Adopt a Layered UI Architecture:
Foundation: Continue to use shadcn/ui for your core, structural components. Its ownership
model provides the control and flexibility necessary for a bespoke application.
Effect Layer: Integrate Aceternity UI and Magic UI for high-impact, animated components.
Treat them as a "finishing" layer to add visual polish and "wow" factor where appropriate.
Motion Language: Standardize on Framer Motion as the single animation engine for the entire
application. Prioritize mastering its layout animation capabilities, as this is the key to creating a
fluid, cohesive experience rather than a collection of isolated animations.
2. Select Best-in-Class Components for Core Modules:
Dashboard: Use Tremor for all charting and data visualization. Its technical and philosophical
alignment with your shadcn/ui and Tailwind stack makes it the most efficient and consistent
choice for building interactive dashboards.
Kanban Board: Pursue a "build" approach using dnd-kit for robust drag-and-drop logic and
Framer Motion for fluid layout animations. This combination offers the highest quality and most
flexible solution. For rapid development, Hover.dev is a viable pre-built alternative.
3. Engineer a True Human-AI Partnership:
Foundation: Use the Vercel AI SDK as the backbone for all AI communication, leveraging its
robust streaming capabilities.
Enhance Text Responses: Implement a streaming typewriter effect to make the AI's
communication feel more natural and conversational.
Provide Contextual Feedback: Go beyond generic spinners. Use the AI SDK's ability to stream
reasoning steps to create "chain of thought" loading indicators that build user trust and
provide transparency into the AI's process.

UI UX Gemini

12

Enable Safe In-App Actions: Implement Generative UI by adopting patterns from CopilotKit.
Allow the AI to trigger frontend actions and render components, but always ensure user control
through a human-in-the-loop approval step for any critical or external action (e.g., sending an
email, updating a record).
4. Upgrade to React 19 as a Core UX Strategy:
The upgrade to React 19 should be considered a high-priority task. Its features are not just
technical improvements; they are fundamental enablers of the premium user experience you
are targeting.
Aggressively adopt the useOptimistic hook for all high-frequency data mutations within the
CRM (e.g., updating statuses, adding notes, moving Kanban cards). The resulting "zerolatency" feel is the single most impactful change you can make to improve the application's
perceived performance.
Utilize Actions and the useFormStatus hook to simplify form handling and create consistent,
automated pending states, further reducing boilerplate and enhancing UI polish.
By following this strategic guide—layering a controlled foundation with polished effects, selecting
technically aligned components, designing a truly interactive AI partner, and leveraging the latest
React features for unparalleled responsiveness—you can successfully build a CRM that not only
meets but exceeds the expectations of a modern, premium user experience.

Works cited
1. 10 Best Free Tailwind-based UI Component Libraries and UI Kits | Blog - GreatFrontEnd,
accessed August 12, 2025, https://www.greatfrontend.com/blog/10-best-free-tailwind-basedcomponent-libraries-and-ui-kits
2. The 5 Best React UI Libraries - Stream, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://getstream.io/blog/react-ui-libraries/
3. Magic UI, accessed August 12, 2025, https://magicui.design/
4. Aceternity UI, accessed August 12, 2025, https://ui.aceternity.com/
5. Are there any UI libraries built on top of shadcn-ui with extended components? - Reddit,
accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.reddit.com/r/nextjs/comments/1hswxmy/are_there_any_ui_libraries_built_on_top_of/
6. magicuidesign/magicui: UI Library for Design Engineers. Animated components and effects you
can copy and paste into your apps. Free. Open Source. - GitHub, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://github.com/magicuidesign/magicui
7. Magic UI: UI library for Design Engineers | Product Hunt, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.producthunt.com/posts/magic-ui-2
8. Using Nextjs, Aceternity UI and Shadcn-UI all together | by Manash ..., accessed August 12,
2025, https://medium.com/@anandmanash321/using-nextjs-aceternity-ui-and-shadcnui-alltogether-e59c1ee93091

UI UX Gemini

13

9. 10 Framer Motion Examples (Animating With Framer Motion In React) | NUMI Blog, accessed
August 12, 2025, https://www.numi.tech/post/framer-motion-examples
10. Framer Motion Examples: Create Stunning Web Animations - Goodspeed Studio, accessed
August 12, 2025, https://goodspeed.studio/blog/framer-motion-examples-animationenhancements
11. Layout animations | Motion for React (prev Framer Motion), accessed August 12, 2025,
https://motion.dev/docs/react-layout-animations
12. The Foundation for your Design System - shadcn/ui, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://ui.shadcn.com/
13. Unveiling 5 Game-Changing Component Libraries in 2024 - Sanjay R - Medium, accessed
August 12, 2025, https://medium.com/@sanjayxr/unveiling-5-game-changing-componentlibraries-in-2024-87524b1abc0b
14. Gestures | Motion for React (prev Framer Motion), accessed August 12, 2025,
https://motion.dev/docs/react-gestures
15. Tremor – Copy-and-Paste Tailwind CSS UI Components for Charts ..., accessed August 12,
2025, https://tremor.so/
16. Tailwind CSS Charts - Flowbite, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://flowbite.com/docs/plugins/charts/
17. Tailwind CSS Charts for React, accessed August 12, 2025, https://www.materialtailwind.com/docs/react/plugins/charts
18. Tailwind CSS & React Charts - Material Tailwind PRO, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.material-tailwind.com/blocks/charts
19. Flowbite React - UI Component Library, accessed August 12, 2025, https://flowbite-react.com/
20. 21+ Best Free Tailwind CSS Component Libraries & UI Kits - 2025 - TailGrids, accessed August
12, 2025, https://tailgrids.com/blog/free-tailwind-libraries-ui-kits
21. dnd kit – a modern drag and drop toolkit for React, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://dndkit.com/
22. How to create an awesome Kanban board using ... - Chetan Verma, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.chetanverma.com/blog/how-to-create-an-awesome-kanban-board-using-dnd-kit
23. Advanced Sortable Drag and Drop with React & TailwindCSS - YouTube, accessed August 12,
2025, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O5lZqqy7VQE
24. Animated Kanban Boards for React and TailwindCSS - Hover.dev, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.hover.dev/components/boards
25. React Skeleton component - Material UI - MUI, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://mui.com/material-ui/react-skeleton/

UI UX Gemini

14

26. How to Turn Boring Loading Screens Into Engaging UX Moments | by Emily Lau, accessed
August 12, 2025, https://articles.ux-primer.com/how-to-turn-boring-loading-screens-intoengaging-ux-moments-df41529a751e
27. Generative User Interfaces - AI SDK UI, accessed August 12, 2025, https://ai-sdk.dev/docs/aisdk-ui/generative-user-interfaces
28. Introducing AI Elements: Prebuilt, composable AI SDK components ..., accessed August 12,
2025, https://vercel.com/changelog/introducing-ai-elements
29. AI SDK Core: streamText, accessed August 12, 2025, https://ai-sdk.dev/docs/reference/ai-sdkcore/stream-text
30. AI SDK 5 - Vercel, accessed August 12, 2025, https://vercel.com/blog/ai-sdk-5
31. Loading & progress indicators — UI Components series | by Taras ..., accessed August 12,
2025, https://uxdesign.cc/loading-progress-indicators-ui-components-series-f4b1fc35339a
32. CopilotKit/CopilotKit: React UI + elegant infrastructure for AI ... - GitHub, accessed August 12,
2025, https://github.com/CopilotKit/CopilotKit
33. Object Generation Streaming with useObject - Vercel, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://vercel.com/new/templates/next.js/use-object
34. Everything on React 19 New Features and Updates - Kellton, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.kellton.com/kellton-tech-blog/react-19-latest-features-and-updates
35. React 19 Upgrade: The Key To Faster Development and Better UX - Brainvire, accessed August
12, 2025, https://www.brainvire.com/blog/react-19-upgrade-guide/
36. React 19: The Features You Need to Know! - DEV Community, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://dev.to/mukhilpadmanabhan/react-19-the-features-you-need-to-know-55h6
37. React 19 useOptimistic Hook Breakdown - DEV Community, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://dev.to/dthompsondev/react-19-useoptimistic-hook-breakdown-5g9k
38. useOptimistic hook in React.js 19 #react19 - YouTube, accessed August 12, 2025,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PsJIcCrkZj8

UI UX Gemini

15

